Spreadsheets & OpenRefine Thursday (AM)

POSITIVE & FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS
I am absolutely sure I will not remember anything. Can we get a link to a list of useful commands
Enjoyed this topic, very useful
OpenRefine was a very good tool to learn about
The usefuleness of OpenRefine was very clear
OpenRefine lookd veryhelpful it is good to introduce it so reigouroously
Good mix between presentation and practical learning
I like the poster-sticer a lot it makes asking for help so much easier
Nicely structured program
A great introduction to OpenRefine thank you!
How to collaborate with others with OpenRefine?
POssiblity for reproducibility?
I learned a lot of techniques that are very imporatn for me :) keep raw data raw & use of OPenREfine very very helpful thank you
Good Intro to OpenRefine
Session explained very simply and I understood it well


NEGATIVE:
Tried to fit too much in and did not have enough time to work through examples
Not enough time to work through examples (particularly in excel)
From our half of the room we couldnt see the speakers which was difficult when she pointhing thing on the large screen(use the mouse on the scrreen to point)
It was difficult to hear the speaker at the beginning as people were walking around with the sign in sheet. Make the list available as people enter the room
Not all the materials could e covered in the limited time. If possible expanding the workshop to 3 days would be very helpful
Please go slowly when you are typing code on datarefine


R (Thursday PM)

POSITIVE & FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS
The use of yellow/red stickers really smart and the tutors are really helpful. Thank you so much
Tutors are really helpful.
Would appreciate more advanced classes on R
useful basis for working with R
Super helpful with any issues. thanks for answering all questions
Intro to R well structured seemed rushed at first but by the end of the ssion felt like I had acheived something. Good to end with simple visualistatio
Interactive=benefits learning :) helpful volunteersd (looking at you Mario !)
Using the same dataset (Arfrican farmers) across differern softwares=good.
Mix of practical and taught is good
lots of fun thank you. All v useful and good
The helpers very patient and understanding they are able to make comples stuff easy to understand
The scripts are well written the comments makes them self-explanatory
The instructors did a very good job of putting the information across
Step by step instructions and helpful staff good
Morning session excellent afternoon too fast

NEGATIVE:
Not so helpful when already familiar with Rm maybe clarify in the course description
Very quick through Info :(
Expland on why these basic function are useful(what can you do wiht them?)
We dont need coffee breaks longer then 15mins would rather work through & make most of time (except lunch) Say the class starts at 8.30 so everyone is set up for 9 instead of mentioning teaching starts at5 9 everyone just aims for 9 then!
Coffee breaks could be limited to 15mins they seem a bit long
Took a very long time for class to start and then first section on excel seemed rushed. Would be good if you directed student to ehterpad as part of pre-course to ensure all required datasets are downloaded as this took up a lot of time. Likewise intro to R. As students to install tidyvers as par of R install as this wasted a lot of time.
For all sessions OpenRefine & R it would be useful to take the time what should/should not not be saved to prevent additional work when you come back to it. Justin expalained this to me but I think it is an imporatn aspect to be covered in class.
Again sometimes difficualt to follw the speakers due to not being able to see the speakers screen when they point at it.
Why use R? (will maybe be clearer tomorrow)
Maybe one line of code about data frame creation could have been helpful
Afternmoon session could have been explained more slowly and more basically. I feel as if the essentials were not given enough time
For me, a first time learner of R it was too much to absorb
