Spreadsheets & OpenRefine Thursday (AM)

POSITIVE & FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS
I am absolutely sure I will not remember anything. Can we get a link to a list of useful commands
Enjoyed this topic, very useful
OpenRefine was a very good tool to learn about
The usefuleness of OpenRefine was very clear
OpenRefine lookd veryhelpful it is good to introduce it so reigouroously
Good mix between presentation and practical learning
I like the poster-sticer a lot it makes asking for help so much easier
Nicely structured program
A great introduction to OpenRefine thank you!
How to collaborate with others with OpenRefine?
POssiblity for reproducibility?
I learned a lot of techniques that are very imporatn for me :) keep raw data raw & use of OPenREfine very very helpful thank you
Good Intro to OpenRefine
Session explained very simply and I understood it well


NEGATIVE:
Tried to fit too much in and did not have enough time to work through examples
Not enough time to work through examples (particularly in excel)
From our half of the room we couldnt see the speakers which was difficult when she pointhing thing on the large screen(use the mouse on the scrreen to point)
It was difficult to hear the speaker at the beginning as people were walking around with the sign in sheet. Make the list available as people enter the room
Not all the materials could e covered in the limited time. If possible expanding the workshop to 3 days would be very helpful
Please go slowly when you are typing code on datarefine


R (Thursday PM)

POSITIVE & FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS
The use of yellow/red stickers really smart and the tutors are really helpful. Thank you so much
Tutors are really helpful.
Would appreciate more advanced classes on R
useful basis for working with R
Super helpful with any issues. thanks for answering all questions
Intro to R well structured seemed rushed at first but by the end of the ssion felt like I had acheived something. Good to end with simple visualistatio
Interactive=benefits learning :) helpful volunteersd (looking at you Mario !)
Using the same dataset (Arfrican farmers) across differern softwares=good.
Mix of practical and taught is good
lots of fun thank you. All v useful and good
The helpers very patient and understanding they are able to make comples stuff easy to understand
The scripts are well written the comments makes them self-explanatory
The instructors did a very good job of putting the information across
Step by step instructions and helpful staff good
Morning session excellent afternoon too fast

NEGATIVE:
Not so helpful when already familiar with Rm maybe clarify in the course description
Very quick through Info :(
Expland on why these basic function are useful(what can you do wiht them?)
We dont need coffee breaks longer then 15mins would rather work through & make most of time (except lunch) Say the class starts at 8.30 so everyone is set up for 9 instead of mentioning teaching starts at5 9 everyone just aims for 9 then!
Coffee breaks could be limited to 15mins they seem a bit long
Took a very long time for class to start and then first section on excel seemed rushed. Would be good if you directed student to ehterpad as part of pre-course to ensure all required datasets are downloaded as this took up a lot of time. Likewise intro to R. As students to install tidyvers as par of R install as this wasted a lot of time.
For all sessions OpenRefine & R it would be useful to take the time what should/should not not be saved to prevent additional work when you come back to it. Justin expalained this to me but I think it is an imporatn aspect to be covered in class.
Again sometimes difficualt to follw the speakers due to not being able to see the speakers screen when they point at it.
Why use R? (will maybe be clearer tomorrow)
Maybe one line of code about data frame creation could have been helpful
Afternmoon session could have been explained more slowly and more basically. I feel as if the essentials were not given enough time
For me, a first time learner of R it was too much to absorb


R (Friday AM)

POSITIVE & FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS
The exercises were generally scaled well in terms of testing knowledge just learned
More advanced R classes would be great
Tutors receptive to how we are getting along and keen to keep everyone on the same page.
coffee breaks when needed.
no negative feedback maybe a little bit short for time
good session
i find this course more targeted at social scientists
great courses enjoying the exercise part and all the tutors are very helpful
lots of people around to help. provided resources that can be used in the future
Thanks for the great course loved Open Refine inspired by R
Really enjoyed. Like the copy & past element as so many mistakes can be made when typing from scratch.
Learned much more here than using R in a browser 
went really well, explained nice and chronologically, enthusiastic and interesting to listen to . thank you
very clear. really a good introduction for R
please slow down a little in speak and in operating your pc. hard to catch up
very good step by step explanation ever for first time learner like myself-thank you.
really interesting and super informative. refreshing knowledge about new programs for data processing
super useful functions
a large area was covered with great resources for self study.
helpers are very patient. really appreciated!!
great intro to the tidy verse
great job Justin but perhaps slow down a little
there was enough support staff in the learning process
Justin-Ho was very good and he did too much effort. I am really thanful for him
it is a very useful entry level course for R. not so scared to use it when I need to later
Truly enjoyable course I learned a lot - great that we have these software and skills- thank you!!
thank you for all your efforts


NEGATIVE:

there was too much that was trying to be covered in the time period
the course on R needs more time especially for beginners
leave solution on screen for longer
a less complicated dataset would make learning R a lot easier
too many breaks longer than 10mins then had to rush through last bit. time could have been organised better
too much information for the session and was very hard to follow without constant assistance from the helpers (who were extremely helpful)
pace could have been faster for me. what is this good for when managing data? would have been good to have more context
there doesnít need to be such a long time for each exercise
we didnít have the time to cover everything maybe an extra day to the workshop so we have time
tried to fit too much into the session. difficult to follow what was happening
One 2 one support is helpful but the explanations are too fast to learning anything without having mush time to read through alone.
rushed ggplot wish there was more time to focus on visualisation of data and this was main reason for joining course and it was very short
would you incread the introduction about R language and different functions used



DATABASES & SQL (FRIDAY PM)

POSITIVE & FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS

SQL lite was very useful and the lecturer was amazing. she took me through the programme directly and I think I would like to have slightly longer introduction to teach me waht I am going to use.
slides will be very useful -lots of clear explanation on them- thank you
great slides but difficult to remember how to do challenges as guide was on other slides
great slides
thank you everyone for teaching the data related techniques its quite useful for me.
DB Browser seems to be a pleasant enough interface

NEGATIVE:

more example from applied work would have been useful- where in their work would people make use of it?
most of the time it was not clear to me where operations would be relevant
dataset: use of simpler dataset with names gender, age country something everyone can understand the complicated datasets confuse even more. you mention a few times it is important to know what is in your dataset therefore keep it simple while learning
too much info for the time
there was too much information covered- hard to follow along
less lecture and more easy exercises may help keep us focused on friday afternoon
Didnít really know where to go with SQL after selecting the right rows etc. how do you use plot export your results?
Not sold on SQL lite and I most likely wont need in in my line of work but impressed with the enthusiasm and friendliness for a friday afternoon.
beacause of the nature of the DB it was really difficult to keep the work context in mind. more frequent and small task to help stay engaged would help!

